More on -sS:

On three-way handshake:

We send out a packet with the SYN flag to server.
This is one of the control flags in the TCP header.

If the server is ok with establishing a connection, it will send back a TCP packet 
with SYN and ACK flag set.

The client will then send back an packet with ACK marked

If the packet we receive has RST flag set, it means that the port is closed.
So the idea is to send out to all ports and figure from the response whether it is opened or closed.

If no packets are received from a port, nmap marks it as filtered. So it is ambiguous.


On Host Discovery.
We need to figure if our target is alive or not. This is done using an ICMP echo request.

In this case, it might be useful to disable port scanning. This is done by -sn

If you want a particular format to be stored: example tnet:
you can do -oA tnet. This stores all formats with name starting with "tnet".

If you are given a list of IP addresses, and you want to iteratively scan them:
-iL <list_name>


On disabling port scanning.

nmap will automatically ping scan with ICMP Echo Requests.
ICMP Echo Requests: A request type of check for latency and reachability. "ping" builds on ICMP Echo Requests.

If pinging host is alive, we can expect an ICMP reply.

To double-check, you can use --packet-trace.

Different OS have different TTL:
The default initial TTL value for Linux/Unix is 64, and TTL value for Windows is 128.



Hosts and Port Scanning
If we run as sudo, root, nmap sends packets with SYN flag by default
Otherwise, nmap sends TCP packets by default.

Difference: SYN flag set: does not complete three-way handshake; TCP connect scan completes.
As a result, SYN flag set enables stealthier scanning.

Default is top 1000 TCP ports.
-p enables specific ports to be scanned.
-F is top 100 ports
the argument --top-ports = 10 is another method to specify how many ports to scan.

-n disables DNS resolution. This means nmap does not need to resolve IP addresses to hostnames. Leads to faster scans.

To figure out hostname you would use DNS.

ARP ping scans: sends out ARP requests for each IP address in the local network.
Idea is to enable mapping of IP addresses to MAC addresses in the network.

ARP ping scans are less likely to be detected by Firewalls because they occur in Layer 2: the layer below the Firewall. Hence bypasses the measures put out by firewalls.
It is also hard to figure a malicious ARP request; there is no targeted IP address.

-Pn disables ICMP echo requests. This is usually done when you perform a SYN scan.
-sS is SYN scan. 

SYN scans: determine if a port is open, closed or filtered. Operates on Transport Layer (Layer 4)

ICMP echo requests (Pings): Operates on Network Layer (Layer 3). Idea is to check if a host is up and latency (how long it responds).




TCP Connect Scan: -sT
This attempts to establish a three-way handshake with a port.
So this builds on top of SYN scans: it completes the handshake.

This is also the most accurate way to tell if a port is open.

Interestingly, although it attempts to complete the handshake, it makes this less suspicious and less likely to be picked up by Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) or IDS.


Filtered Ports
In most cases, this is due to firewall policies.

Packets are either dropped or rejected.

Dropped: no response

Rejected: ICMP Destination Unreachable message. Type 3 error code 3


UDP ports
These ports are different from TCP ports in the sense that they have no protocols and are stateless.
-sU
It is typically slower because there is no acknowledgement.


nmap -A is aggressive scan: it will gather more information at expense of discovery.



Saving results
When scanning, it is good practice to save the results.
nmap has 3 different formats:

Normal output (-oN) with the .nmap file extension
Grepable output (-oG) with the .gnmap file extension
XML output (-oX) with the .xml file extension

-oA will save in all three formats.

There is a tool that can help us churn out a nicely-formatted report: xsltproc: it builds from xml to a html format.



Recommendation: scan small first > run port scan in the background for all open ports(-p-) > then run version scan on desired specific ports for more service information.

Pressing space bar shows the progress of the scan

--stats-every=5s recurs the stats every 5 seconds; -v makes the output more descriptive.




Banner Grabbing
This refers to gathering information regarding services and their versions and other metadata.


How nmap figures services: It first looks at the banners of the scanned ports and prints them out.
If it cannot figure its version, it will scan through for known signatures.

After a successful three-way handshake, servers will typically send a banner for identification. Some services though, will not send a banner for identification.


tcpdump
Used to capture and analyse data packets in real-time.
Usage: sudo tcpdump -i eth0 host <between ip address 1> and <ip address 2>
-i is the network interface; Ethernet in this case.

nc
Used to create UDP or TCP connections.
Usage: nc -nv <ip address> <port>
Initiates a TCP connection with IP address on port 25.
-n: Disable DNS resolution; useful if you want IP address, not hostname.
-v: verbose mode

These two tools can be combined to intercept network traffic:
Firstly, run tcpdump.
Then establish a connection with server using nc.
During this establishment of connection, you can see data packets coming to your nc server via tcpdump

You can use scripts with nmap: Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)
To use a script: --script <script category> 

Firewalls
Monitors network traffic between the firewall and incoming data connections
Prevents dangerous connections but also analyses potential attacks and reports them

If specific patterns are detected, the IPS will prevent the incoming connections
Firewalls have certain rules to handle packets - drop or reject

Dropped packets - as an attacker there is no response.

For rejected packets with RST flag, they will typically have a ICMP error code or have nothing at all.

TCP packets with just ACK flags are stealthier. Reason being is that a Firewall cannot tell
if it is within the network or outside the network.

When a port is closed: host will respond with an RST flag.

All connections attempts from outside the network are usually blocked by Firewalls



IDS systems

Used to detect potential attacks. Will alert administrator if detection occurs.

A way to bypass this measure is to use VPS. Virtual Private Servers (VPS).
Rationale: administrators will try and ban IP addresses. If you use a VPS, you have
other possible servers to try penetration testing on the machine.


Spoofing a packet
It is possible to edit the headers of the packet to fake an IP address.
For this, we can use nmap -D for decoy. nmap will generate various random IP addresses
inserted into the IP header to disguise the origin of the packet sent.
Usage:
-D RND:5
means to generate 5 random number of IP addresses. Our real IP address will then be in
one of them.
All decoys, in this process, also must be online so that we will not trigger security mechanisms
that detect flooding.


Spoofed packets are often filtered out by ISPs and routers, even if they come from the same
network range.


Reverse DNS resolution:
Reverse DNS lookup. This is just the reverse of the DNS resolution process

DNS proxying is the interception between DNS queries from client to server.
DNS queries are typically sent over UDP port 53. Sometimes TCP too nowadays.
You can input your own custom DNS servers using --dns-server.

DNS servers within a company are typically more trusted than outside.
Hence it is better to use them to interact with the hosts of the internal network

You can use nmap to scan on TCP port 53 as a source port.