
ISPs:

DNS -> Internet -> ISP

Then ISPs connect to either home or companies:
Home:

ISP -> Router -> Devices

Companies:

ISP -> Router -> Switch (Here we enter the company's network):
1. Switch -> DMZ -> Web server
2. Switch -> IP Phone
3. Switch -> Printer
4. Switch -> Client Host
The switch and router in this case should be on an administrative network
The printer should be on a separate network, and the client hosts on a separate network
The printer should also never talk to the Internet

Website: Uniform Resource Locater (URL)
This is considered as a Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN)

Consider: We visit a website
A website can be thought of as an address
The router is an way for us to connect to the Internet
Our packets that we send to the router will go through the ISP.

The ISP will observe the DNS to resolve the corresponding IP address.

Wide Area Network (WAN): known as the Internet

Local Area Network (LAN) / Wide Local Area Network (WLAN)
No difference between them.
Typically, they will assign IP addresses to your device.
This is done via a process called Dynamic Host Control Protocol (DHCP)

Virtual Private Network (VPN)
There are 3 kinds:
1. Site-to-site VPN
    Used to join networks in different places together; to be treated as Local
2. Remote Access VPN
    This makes the person intending to join the VPN have his client create a software-based
    representation that mimics a network interface card (NIC) found in computers.
    This is a virtual network interface.
    After creation of this interface, the person can just access the remote network as
    though his computer is part of the network.

    An example is HackTheBox, which uses OpenVPN. This OpenVPN client creates a TUN adapter
    (TUN stands for tunnel) which enables us to join the labs.

Typically, when devices connect to a VPN, the device creates a routing table that will
determine how traffic flows. This table shows which IP addresses are accessible within the
network and which ones are not. Those that are not are accessed through the internet.

In a Split-Tunnel VPN, this routing table only creates routes for required specific networks
that can only be access via the VPN. So, other routes, other addresses, will all proceed to the
internet from the client-side. Hence it is called split-tunnel, because there are two tunnels
that are inaccessible from each other. HackTheBox uses this which promotes privacy.

In the case of company networks, Split-Tunnel VPNs are not recommended since if the client
is infected with malware, it will be harded to debug

3. SSL VPN

This is a VPN that is more associated with corporate networks than home networks.
This uses the SSL/TLS protocol to provide secure remote access to private networks.
The process of SSL VPNs:
    1. Your device connects to the SSL VPN server using a web browser or a dedicated
    SSL VPN client software.
    2. Then, your browser provides required authentication credentials to the SSL VPN server to be 
    authenticated.
    3. Once authenticated, the SSL VPN server will establish a secure SSL/TLS connection
    with your client. This connection encrypts all data flows between the client and the server

SSL VPN servers are literally dedicated computers that sit in a company's server rack, that handles
the exchange of cryptographic keys with clients that want to interact with the company's internal network.




Global Area Network (GAN)

The Internet is an example of this. Huge companies maintain their own isolated networks that can
span across countries (has many WANs), and are considered GANs. Typically undersea cables or satellite
transmission


Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)

Connects multiple LANs.
Typically, these are individual branches of a company connected to a MAN via leased lines.


Personal Area Network (PAN) or Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN) 
Example is mobile hotspots


Network Topology
This is a term to refer to the arrangement of logical connections of devices in a network.
Includes clients, servers, network components like routers, switches, bridges.

Has 3 main areas:

1. Connections
    Wired and Wireless.
    Wired will include the cable types like coaxial cable, twisted pair cables ...
    Wireless will include the different types too: Wi-Fi, Cellular, Satellite...

2. Nodes (Network Interface Controllers)
    These are like connection points:
    Repeaters, hubs, firewalls, switches, routers, gateways, bridges...

3. Classification
    Has a few types:
    Point-to-point, bus, ring, star, mesh, daisy-chain...


Point-to-point Topology
A straightforward physical link connects two devices.
Not to confuse with peer-to-peer architecture.

Bus Topology
No central network component; every host can control the signals sent.
One host sends; others evaluate

Star Topology
All hosts connect to one central network component. Typically a hub, router or switch.
This central network component will redirect data to intended devices.

Ring Topology
For each host in a ring arrangement: one cable enters and one cable leaves.
Coordination is done via a protocol all hosts agree on.

Mesh Topology
This is situational. There are two general structures: fully-meshed and partially-meshed.
For a fully-meshed structure: this is like a complete graph.
Used in WAN to ensure high reliability and stability.
This setup: important network nodes like routers can be networked together. If one fails,
others can work without problems.

In a partially-meshed structure, each endpoint is connected by only one connection.

Tree Topology
Often used in large companies.
The server is the root, then its childrens are ethernet switches, then host computers.

Daisy Chain Topology
Often used in automation technology.
A computer connects to a computer connects to another computer like a tree with one child only.







Proxies
A proxy is just an intermediary device like a middleman that must be able to inspect data flowing
through it.
If it cannot inspect data through it; it is called a gateway.
Generally operates in the application layer; layer 7.


Dedicated Proxy / Forward Proxy
This is a device that forwards your requests.
Because as per the definition of proxies, the requests can be inspected and modified before forwarding.

In corporations, these are known as web filters. Malware attempting to communicate with command-and-control
(C2) servers or malicious websites must first bypass the proxy server.

Proxy-aware malware: These are malware that can recognise the above; and will rely on the underlying
operating system's network stack, such as WinSock in Windows, to establish network connections.
This means that malware can easily bypass the proxy server and communicate with external servers.

Most web browsers have a setting: System proxy. This means that requests made by these browsers will go
through system-configured proxies.
If the malware utilizes WinSock (Native Windows API), it will likely be proxy aware without any additional
code.

A browser that does not follow this proxy setting is Firefox.
It does not use WinSock and instead uses libcurl, which is its own networking library.
If a malware wishes to target Firefox, it has to change the proxy settings to use libcurl.

Alternative to the above's approach, an attacker can write a malware using DNS as a C2 mechanism.
However, this is combatted if the organisation monitors the DNS via tools like Sysmon.

Burp Suite is a tool that cybersecurity professionals use to analyse packets between web applications and 
web browsers. It uses a proxy server as an intercepting server between the browser and application.

This enables users to analyse and manipulate web traffic in real-time; and or inspect individual requests
and responses.
Burp Suite also has other tools that can help detect vulnerabilities.



Reverse Proxy
Reverse functionality of a forward proxy. Filters incoming ones.
Example is CloudFlare. Idea is that it reads incoming requests. CloudFlare is used for the reason that they
can absorb a lot of DDoS attacks via their mechanisms implemented: some examples:
1. Spreads out the entire network across the globe via dispersion of DDoS attack. Uses an Anycast network.
2. Traffic filtering
3. Enhanced network infrastructure that better deals with such attacks on different network layers.
4. AI systems to adapt to attack patterns.
5. Real-time monitoring and response
and many more...

This concept of reverse proxy is useful if you want to open up a backdoor - set it on a port. When a client
connects to this port, forward the client's data to the attacker via this same port.
This is useful for bypassing firewalls or logging.

If an attacker also gets access somehow to the system via SSH - a reverse proxy can be set up to send back
web requests through an SSH tunnel. This will evade IDS detection.



Web Application Firewall (WAF)
ModSecurity is a open-source example.
Such a firewall is meant to protect web applications from various attacks and vulnerabilities.

A WAF simply just monitors the flow of HTTP or HTTPS traffic through them and has tools to deal with
suspicious behaviours.


All proxies can either be transparent or not. If transparent; the client will not know about its existence.
This is just a setting.
Example of non-transparent proxies: enterprise networks, corporate environments, and public Wi-Fi hotspots.
Centralised proxy servers are dedicated to authenticate and give access.




Networking Model
7 layers and they describe data flow through them.

Regarding data flow, inter-layer communication utilises a format called a Protocol Data Unit (PDU).

Moving up the layers: Sender
Every layer will adds its own header and footer to the data. Then this new whole chunk becomes the data that
is sent the next layer.

Moving down the layer: Receiver
The reverse is done: strip away the headers off the data one-by-one as you go down the layers.

The concept of wrapping the data with additional information as it travels up is called encapsulation.


The OSI model can be sort of categorised: layers 2 to 4 are transport-related; whereas layers 5 to 7 are
application-related.


TCP / IP model
These are protocols.
IP is located on layer 3 whereas TCP is located on layer 4.
There are a few tasks that the protocol does:
1. Logical addressing
2. Routing
3. Error & Control Flow
4. Application Support
5. Name Resolution


The network layer is layer 3. It controls data packets; which are transferred from node to node.

The network layer is generally in charge of logical addressing and routing.
There are quite a few protocols in this layer. A protocol also is just a collection of rules in
the layer.

Each host has an IP address and a Media Access Control address (MAC).

It is necessary for inter-networks to utilise an IP address to communicate.
The MAC and IP address are generally the to that helps identify the address of receiver.
Conceptually, one can think of the MAC as more specific.


IPv4
This is a method of assignment of IP addresses.
It is a 32-bit binary number = 4 bytes = 8 octets.
It is conventional to refer by the bytes; the octets; and to identify by groups of 8 bits.

The IP address can be divided into two parts: a host part and a network part.
The router assigns the host part; the network administrator assigns the network part.

In the past; IP addresses are further classified - class A, B, C, D and E. It was just a way
to classify different types of networks based on the size. But this is outdated.

There is a constraint in the total number of IP addresses possible due to it being 32-bits.
Hence we have IPv6; more IP addresses can be assigned.


Subnet Masks
In addition to the above's approach of classification, another approach is via subnetting.
This basically uses netmasks. The idea of this netmasks is playing with bitwise AND operator;
by performing a logical AND, having a mask of the form 1100 applied to a example value 1011
will "filter" out the first two bits; and yield 1000. The same concept is applied here.
A subnet mask typically define how many '1's there are in the mask: via the CIDR.



Default Gateways
This is an IP address of the router.
This router will connects the local network to other networks or the internet.
Mainly handles routing traffic between networks.



Broadcast Address
Typically the last address column. To get this value; apply the subnet mask on the IP address.
A broadcast typically does not need a recipient. It sends to all devices in the network. It
will include its own IP address.



Subnet's network address
We assume the IPv4 address as it is. Then we split it into two parts - network and host parts.
The second part - host part, determined by the split determined by CIDR, when set to 0,
makes the entire IP address = network address.

A network address is critical for delivery of data packets.
It determines if a packet should be routed within the network or out of it (to another subnet
via the gateway).





Subnetting into smaller networks
1. Determine the number of hosts you can have maximally
2. Determine how many hosts you want in a subnet
3. AND Determine how many subnets that you want
You must ensure that the total number of hosts in 2 and 3 cannot exceed 1.

The idea is that let us say you have 254 hosts (2 reserved for network address and broadcasting).
Then you want 3 subnets; maximally you can have (256 - 2*3)/3 hosts in one subnet.
So it depends on the combination of number of subnets and number of hosts.
With reference to YouTube video on how to do this: Given 192.168.50.0/24:
/24 => 1 network of 256 hosts.
/25 => 2 networks of 128 hosts

The division becomes a 3 part - network, subnet, host.
Visually: we have for /24:
11111111 11111111 11111111 00000000
Here we observe that the subnet part is empty; we only have network and host.

For /25:
11111111 11111111 11111111 `1`0000000
The backtick here is actually the subnet part now; and we have 2. Because with /25, we can use
the 1 in the backtick as a flag or marker for subnet index; and there are two possibilities.
But we also forgo more hosts that we can assign.

For /26:
11111111 11111111 11111111 `11`000000
The backtick here is actually the subnet part now; and we have 4 subnets. Because with /26, we can use
the 2 `1`s in the backtick as a flag or marker for subnet index; and there are two possibilities.
But we also forgo more hosts that we can assign.

So from this, let us say /26, if in the backtick section we have instead `10`, we can interpret
that the IP address belongs to the 3rd index; 3rd subnet out of the total 4 subnets. 

The above is a good way to interpret an IP address and its subnet it belongs to.

Subnetting benefits and purpose:
1. You can separate the networks based on purpose - and in a way, enforce security policies on a particular
subnet. So this indirectly promotes security. This also makes it easier to manage policies applied.
2. Due to categorisation, you can also better network performance with subnets since you can route different
data packets to different subnets (assuming you have devices in different subnets)




A trick used to help identify whether networks are together:
It is possible to identify what octet of the IP Address may change by remembering those four numbers.
Given the Network Address: 192.168.1.1/25, it is immediately apparent that 192.168.2.4 would not be in the
same network because the /25 subnet means only the fourth octet may change.
In the example, you would compare the 1.1 and 2.4 parts. You can tell from this difference that the two IP
addresses must not be on the same subnet; because if so, only the last part, the "1" and "4" would differ,
not the first part, the "1" and "2".

Also, you can quickly tell how big a subnet is using modulo operator:
/25 => 8 bits in an octet; so we can infer that there is 1000 0000.
Then, 2^7 = 128 => 128 addresses.
If /26 => we can infer 2 '1's on LHS, so we get: 1100 0000. So 2^6 addresses.



Broadcast address
Like the above, if we set all the bits in the IPv4 address host part to 1, we can get the
broadcast address


MAC addresses
Also known as physical address, because each network physical device (card) has one of this
address.
Each host in a network has its own 48-bit MAC address.

There are different types of MAC standards as well:
1. Ethernet
2. Bluetooth
3. WLAN
Each correspond to each physical network interface (card)

When an IP packet is sent, it is addressed on layer 2 to the destination host's physical
address or to the router. Each packet has both the sender and receiver's MAC address.


Breakdown of MAC addresses
A MAC address consists of 6 bytes.
First 3 bytes correspond to the Organisation Unique Identifier (OUI). This is set by IEEE
which is based on the manufacturer.
The last 3 bytes correspond to the Individual Address Part or Network Interface Controller (NIC)
This is set by the manufacturers themselves.

MAC addresses and routing:
If the device is on the subnet, the physical address is used.
If the device is not on the subnet, the Ethernet frame (unit of data transferred over an Ethernet
network) is addressed to the router's physical address.


In IPv4, Address Resolution Protocol is used to determine the MAC address associated with IP
addresses in the same subnet. ARP resolves IP to MAC addresses.

There are also reserved bits within MAC addresses:

The last bit in the first octet: Identifies the device as unicast (0) or multicast (1).
The second last bit in the first octet:
If 0: MAC address is globally unique; assigned by IEEE.
If 1: MAC address is local.

Since MAC addresses can change, it is not good to use as means of security.
Few attacks on MAC addresses:
MAC spoofing: Fake a MAC address
MAC flooding: Spams many packets with different MAC addresses. This overloads the MAC address
table
MAC address filtering: Configuration of network to allow certain MAC address only from accessing

Unicast means that packets sent will reach only one specific host.
Multicast sends packets once to all hosts for them to accept or not.

Multicast address is unique in address.


Address Resolution Protocol
This is a network protocol on LAN.
Links IP addresses to MAC addresses.
The mapping enables communication between devices.
When a device wishes to communicate: it sends a broadcast message with the destination IP address
and its own MAC address.
Device with that destination IP address will respond with an ARP reply.
This process is called ARP resolution



"who has" message
This is a type of request sent on a network to discover MAC addresses in the network.
Particularly to find out which IP addresses has which MAC address.


With this, it is possible to fake one's identity - ARP spoofing.
ARP spoofing / ARP poison routing / ARP cache poisoning
This is the attack where the attacker creates false ARP messages over a LAN.
Goal is to enable mapping of the attacker's device (MAC address) to an IP
address of a legitimate device within the network.
The moment this is successful, the attacker can receive messages on behalf of the IP
address of the legitimate device, as well as send on behalf of it.


IPv6 is the successor to IPv4. It has now 128 bits.

There are 3 types of IPv6 addresses:
1. Unicast: One-to-one communication
Every device has >= 1 unicast address
2. Anycast: Used for load balancing or efficient routing.
A chosen group of devices will be assigned >= 1 Anycast address each.
Each address can be used for a particular service. So different services can use different
addresses.
3. Multicast: Used for one-to-many communication.
Not all device have this. Each device can have >= 0 multicast address.

So each device can be assigned a combination of the above 3 types of addresses.

Since IPv6 addresses are 16 bytes, we address them by hexadecimals normally.
The address is split into 4 groups of 4 hex numbers with delimiter ":"
Leading zeroes are left out via the notation of "::"

IPv6 addresses also has two parts - network prefix and host suffix (network identifier)

Prefix length follows CIDR notation - /64 means 64 bits.
The host part, the suffix, the network identifier, is derived from a 48-bit MAC address.
The network identifier is extended to 64 bits via these 48-bits in the MAC address.
The extension is performed by splitting the 48 bits into 2 24-bits; then inserting in the middle
the fixed value "FF:FE".
After which, the 7th bit from the left is set to 1 for locally administered; 0 otherwise.


Two common internet protocols - User Datagram Protocol (UDP) and Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
TCP: establishes a connection via a three-way-handshake.
This TCP connection occurs as we attempt to connect to a server (consider entering the URL of the website)
The server will respond via TCP the HTML code that is rendered on our browser.

UDP: connectionless protocol - this just means that not necessarily a connection has to be established
before data packets are sent.
So there could be some packet loss. Useful for videos because there is less overhead. So there will be
more data sent per unit time compared to TCP assuming all else constant. But is less reliable.


Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
Mainly used for debugging errors or status reporting.

An ICMP request is sent in this case. Example: ping, ping reply.

An ICMP message only has two possibilities: request or reply.

Useful if you want to know if a packet has been successfully delivered or not.

Under the umbrella of the two possibilities of request or reply; there are many categories:
echo request: tests for reachability. Example is traceroute; which sends ICMP echo requests.
timestamp request: requests for time on the remote device
address mask request: request subnet mask of the remote device

Types of reply
echo reply: reply for the echo request
destination unreachable: the packet cannot reach the remote device.
redirect: this is when a router wants to inform a device that it should send its packet to
another router
time exceeded: packet took too long to reach destination
parameter problem: this is when the packet's headers have issues.

There is a header field that is useful: time-to-live. Explained in Linux Fundamentals, but idea:
It decrements at each new device it hops to (and then back to our device) and then back to the
next device by 1.

Also useful is that different OS have different default TTLs. So we can use this to make a
guess off the remote device's OS.



Voice over IP (VoIP)
Enables using internet to instead of traditional phone lines to make calls.
VoIP ports conventionally are TCP/5060 and TCP/5061.
These two ports are used for initiation, called Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
Another protocol called the H.323 protocol uses a different port - TCP/1720.
But as of now SIP is still more popular.

Common SIP requests and methods:
1. INVITE: initiates a session or invites another endpoint to join call.
2. ACK: confirms the recipient of 1.
3. BYE: ends the session
4. CANCEL: cancels a pending INVITE
5. REGISTER: registers a SIP user agent with a SIP registrar server.
    This server can belong to a company.
    Having this SIP registrar server promotes security (authentication and authorisation)
    and efficiency (due to faster mapping and connecting of user addresses) capabilities.
6. OPTIONS: queries an SIP registrar server to about the status of the SIP registrar server.
    This can also be used to request for information of another user registered in the server.

Based on the notes, a SEPxxxx.cnf file, where xxxx is a unique identifier, is a configuration
file used by Cisco Unified Communications Manager, formerly known as Cisco CallManager discovered
which provided many details like the phone model, firmware version and other details.






Wireless Networks

These are computer networks that use Radio Frequency (RF) to send data.
A WiFi adapter converts data into RF signals, then sends them over the air.

Then, other devices will receive this signals and do conversions on their own.
A local area network (LAN) that covers a small area like a home or a small office might
use a technology called WiFi. WiFi generally has limited range.

On the other hand, larger areas might use a Wireless Wide Area Network (WWAN).
These are the 2G, 3G 4G LTE and 5G that we see on our phones - they use cellular networks
to communicate over large distances.

For WiFi networks, there are bands - 2.4GHz or 5 GHz bands.
2.4GHz => Longer wavelength and can penetrate solid objects better than 5GHz.
5 GHz => Shorter wavelength, less penetration power.

Accessing a WiFi network. This is done via the Wireless Access Point (WAP). In homes, this
could be a router.

To connect to a router: one uses a wireless networking protocol: IEEE 802.11.
When a device wishes to connect to a WiFi network, it sends a request to WAP to initiate
the connection process. Such a request is called the connection request frame. It has the
following details:

1. MAC address
2. SSID (this is the network name; Service Set ID)
3. Supported data rates of device (this is the speed of data transfer supported)
4. Supported channels of device (2.4GHz or 5 GHz)
5. Supported security protocols of device


WEP is an old security protocol to secure wireless networks. Called Wired Equivalent Privacy
WEP Challenge Response Handshake
This occurs if a device attempts to establish a secure connection with a WAP using a WEP
security protocol.
Packets are exchanged to establish connection.

CRC checksum
Occurs in WEP.
This is to ensure that data is not modified. But it has a security risk:
CRC value is derived from the plaintext data and not the encrypted data.
This is why WEP is not recommended nowadays.

WiFi networks have their own set of security features:
1. Encryption
    Above is one - WEP. There are also WPA2, WPA3
2. Access Control
3. Firewall

More on WPA encryption:
WPA can use different encryption algorithms.

For WEP, there is an Initialisation Vector (IV) but is quite small and can be brute-forced



Authentication Protocols
Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol (LEAP) and 
Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP).
Both, like the name suggests, are based on the EAP. This is a framework in networking.
LEAP uses a shared key for authentication; same key is used for encryption and authentication.
This, as you can see, has its dangers.

PEAP, on the other hand, uses a more secure authentication method called the Transport Layer
Security (TLS). Establishment of connection is done using a digital certificate and an
encrypted tunnel that protects the authentication process.


There is a protocol on network devices like routers and switches - TACACS+
Stands for Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus.
The request typically includes the user's credentials and other information about the session.
This authentication request is encrypted as well, using methods like SSL / TLS or IPSec.

Disassociation attack
It can be done on all networks. Such an attack's purpose is simply to disconnect one or more of
the clients in a network. This is done by sending a disassociation frame to the clients.
This plays with the idea that WAP uses disassociation frames to disconnect a client from the network.


Wireless Hardening
There are many ways to protect wireless networks. However, some are more useful than others:
1. Disable broadcasting of SSID
    Makes it harder to discover the network. WiFi will not be visible to unconnected devices.
2. WiFi Protected Access (WPA)
    There are two versions - WPA-Personal and WPA-Enterprise
    The enterprise version uses a centralised authentication server to verify identity of clients.
3. MAC filtering
    Security measure that allows a WPA to accept or reject connections from specific devices from
    their MAC addresses.
4. Deploy EAP-TLS
    Basically using EAP-TLS - it will provide stronger authentication and encryption.


Virtual Private Networks
The admin configures who can access the VPN; connects it to the internet; then authenticates
themselves.
VPNs can be used to enable employees to access the internal network of the company's servers remotely.
There are required parts for a VPN:
1. VPN client
2. VPN server
3. Encryption
4. Authentication

At the TCP/IP layer - VPN connection typically uses the Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) protocol
to encrypt and authenticate the VPN traffic. Then, the VPN client and server can communicate safely.


Internet Protocol Security (IPSec)
This is a network security protocol that also provides encryption and authentication.
Works by encrypting the data payload of each IP packet + add an authentication header that verifies
the integrity and authenticity of the packet.

There are two modes of using IPSec:
1. Transport Mode
IPSec will only encrypt and authenticate the data payloads; no encryption of the packet's header.
2. Tunnel Mode
IPSec will encrypt and authenticate the entire IP packet and its headers. Typically used to create a VPN
tunnel between two networks.

In the case of implementing a firewall, a firewall in between the internal and external network has to
allow the ESP protocol for encryption and authentication of IP packets.


Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP)
Another protocol that enables creation of VPNs.
Works by establishing a secure tunnel between the VPN client and server. Then allow data to be transmitted
securely through the tunnel. 
It has many known vulnerabilities and hence has been discontinued

Encapsulation here means wrapping data with protocol information as it moves through different layers of
the network stack.



Vendor Specific Information
Cisco has its own operating system for their network devices like routers and switches called Cisco IOS.
It has the typical set of features one would expect - security, virtualisation

Can be managed via CLI and GUI.



Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs)
This is a logical grouping of network endpoints.
Broadcasts within one VLAN will not reach any other endpoints outside it.

The idea is that each VLAN has its own subnet.

The purpose of using one - if you only have one switch and or router. But you have different departments
in a company. Then, an insider can actually perform attacks like broadcast storms. So having VLAN reduces
the possibility of such an attack.



Key Exchange Mechanisms

A common protocol is the Diffie-Hellman key exchange
Basis for TLS.
Concept: two parties generate a shared secret key that is used to encrypt and decrypt messages between them.
It is vulnerable to Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) attacks
It also requires a lot of CPU power

Another common protocol is RSA.
This uses the idea that it is fast to multiply two large prime numbers but difficult to factor them into its
prime.


ECDH is a variant of Diffie-Hellman, but the shared key is generated using an elliptic curve.



Authentication Protocols
This protocol exists to verify identities of users and or devices.

Also provides a means of securely exchanging information between entities in a network.

